Tips on Encoding
----------------

We have done some initial tests on encoding using different parameters.
Here's a brief summary of what we've found, along with some suggestions.

Subsample search gives almost identical compression to exhaustive search,
and is somewhat faster (how much faster varies depending on other parameters).
This seems to suggest that subsample search should almost always be used
in lieu of exhaustive search.  On the other hand, two-level search gives
results similar to half-pixel exhaustive and subsample search, and is
faster than both.  So two-level search is a good alternative.

All of those search routines give slightly better results than logarithmic
search, but at a much higher speed cost.  Which you use depends on how
much time you're willing to trade off for compression.

An important observation is that half-pixel search only increases the time
for logarithmic search slightly, whereas it increases it dramatically for
subsample/exhaustive search.  Half pixel does give slight improvement in
compression.  Therefore, one rule of thumb is if you're using logarithmic
search, it definitely makes sense to do a half-pixel search.  On the other
hand, if you're using subsample or exhaustive search, then it doesn't make
sense unless you're willing to wait a long, long time -- a better alternative
is to use two-level search (which does the exhaustive full-pixel search, then
a local half-pixel search).

Cross-2 B-frame search gives slightly better compression at the cost of
roughly half the speed.

The search technique with a good tradeoff of compression ratio/speed seems
to be logarithmic search with cross-2 B-frame search, original frame as
reference, half-pixel search, with a range of about 10 pixels.  The range
depends on the image, though, so you might want to experiment on a few
representative frames before encoding the entire sequence.  These settings
are in the default parameters file.

One important note about this discussion:  All of the above is irrespective
of quality.  We are beginning to do experiments involving quality, and
preliminary results seem to suggest that the most notable differences in
quality occur between using original/decoded frames as reference frames, and
between half/full pixel motion vectors.  More detailed results will be
forthcoming.
